politics for a change I received a
request to make a video on this topic
probably about two months ago from a
generous supporter on patreon I think he
is actually my single most generous
supporter but I assure you my opinions
in the matter have not been corrupted by
this money being stuffed into my pockets
but my donors on patreon this is more or
less the same opinion I had many months
ago but if wasn't requested to make a
video on topic
probably nobody but my girlfriend would
have heard me discussing this particular
element of world politics right now all
right
is this unreasonable is it unreasonable
for me to be talking about communism in
the context of Corbyn and the for him
disastrous outcome of the most recent
election I do not think it is
unreasonable this is a guy named Seamus
Milne
I'm gonna assume he prefers his first
name pronounced Seamus to quote this
article from the F P titled Corbin's pet
Stalinist in a 2009 interview with his
friend George Galloway on talkSPORT
radio Milne slipped into a form of
wistful Estelle GE nostalgia for the
former East Germany familiar from such
films as goodbye Lennon describing the
fall of the German Democratic Republic
as quote an important loss for many
millions of people close quote in a
column for The Guardian written several
years earlier he argued that official
communism quote for all its brutalities
and failures delivered rapid
industrialisation mass education job
security had huge advances in social and
gender equality close quote take a
little bit deeper here's another
appointee who served as one of Corbin's
on a no right-hand men I mean these two
guys they really were standing to the
left on the right of Corbin and going
through this process Andrew Philip
Drummond Murray
joined the Communist Party of Great
Britain in 1976 aged 18 well okay that's
a long time ago
I mean we were all young once I mean
some of us have tattoos from when we
were 18 years old we might but keep
reading it's not such a Junt history he
became associated with its straight left
faction at this time Murray became a
close friend of
sheamus mil in case you have a short
memory or in case my pronunciation is
really terrible that's this guy here who
you saw just a moment ago on screen so
they were allies together in the same
Communist Party extremist faction
Murray's allies during this period have
been described by Francis Becket as
quote more extreme than most of the
Stalinist I knew the Stalinist were
known as tanki's but Murray's lot were
super tanky he's holy this looked
following the dissolution of the cpg B
in 1991 he was a leader of the Communist
liaison group which itself dissolved in
1995 with Murray and its other members
joining the Communist Party of Britain
see this is this is not such ancient
history he you know even though
communism was a failure and each one of
these specific communists parties was a
failure
he just keeps at it he's indefatigable
in his commitment to communism and this
is not moderate communism this is
communist extremism Murray served on the
Communist Party of Britain's Executive
Committee from 2000 2004 and was an
advocate of the party supporting the
respect coalition give me European and
municipal elections that year he served
once more in the party's executive from
2008 to 2011 he told John Harrison 2015
quote communism still represents in my
view of society worth working towards
albeit not by the methods of the 20th
century which failed period close quote
now you may be wondering is this just a
case of conservative exaggeration might
it be that the F P article with the
headline screaming about Stalinism
within Corbin's camp of carefully
selected advisors couldn't just be an
exaggeration well apart from formal
communist party affiliation this guy
Milne there is a notorious editorial
that he published with the Guardian
newspaper I did read the whole thing but
those of you who have been spending some
time around the Internet
pick up on the direction it's taking
from this brief quotation here it has
become almost received wisdom to bracket
Stalin and Hitler as twin monsters of
the past century Mao and Pol Pot are
sometimes thrown in as an afterthought
and commonplace to equate communism and
fascism as the two greatest evils of an
unprecedented Lee sanguinary era how
would the left respond if there were an
equivalent article published by the
Conservative Party trying to bail out
and flatter Adolf Hitler now I can you
can read the whole article if you want
to but just from this quotation on
screen you can see precisely the
direction it's taking it is trying to
say offer an argument for the moral
exceptionalism of Joseph Stalin Mao
Zedong Pol Pot it is trying to say that
morally they are not comparable to Adolf
Hitler well what if somebody on the
right wing who was closely associated
with a candidate for Prime Minister of
Britain or president estates what if
someone were making the equivalent
excuses for Adolf Hitler if they were
making equivalent excuses for mass
murder amongst right-wing extremists
obviously that would discredit the
candidate obviously that would raise
fundamental questions of why did you
choose this guy as your advisor so on
and so forth why was Corvin so popular
just a few years ago and less and less
popular now really the issue was tony
blair jeremy corbyn distinguished
himself as the one and only voice within
the Labour Party who took his opposition
to Blair to the logical extreme of
demanding that Tony Blair go to prison
and Corbin was promising that if he were
lifted up to become the party leader and
possibly become Prime Minister that he
would actually press criminal charges
against tony blair political power rests
not
the perfection of the plans you present
but on the potential for those plans to
be implemented if the public does not
perceive your promises as truly
actionable then you're not going to get
elected it doesn't matter how fine they
may be whether in broad outlines or in
detail quota is he going to be tried for
it I don't know
could he be tried for it possibly close
good hmm in in Canadian English that is
what you would call waffling as a
politician you can be right and you can
be wrong but don't ever whoa what
matters above all else is how actionable
your opinions are that people believe
you can and will implement your promises
matters much more than how however so
utopian your ideals may be whether an
outline or in detail here's Jeremy
Corbyn making the same mistake with his
promises on education beneath the
headline he says uh what I said was we
would deal with it by trying to reduce
the burden we never said we would
completely abolish it oh this is much
much worse than mixed signals it really
would not be hard for me to find
examples of you declaring that you were
going to completely abolish it quote the
party's manifesto pledged to scrap
university tuition fees altogether
making him popular with young people
well not popular enough to win the
election but we continue talking over
them people despite criticism from other
quarters but the manifesto made no
mention of an amnesty on existing debt
to the student loans company which
currently stands at 76 billion pounds
sterling and you know you start looking
through the details even if just the
propaganda and he doesn't really seem
too confident or convincing with this
himself
I do not think that British people felt
that this was actionable implementable
palpable
accomplishable real I think they felt
they were being sold a platitude and the
kind of confusion again even just to go
back to that subtitle well I said we
deal with it by trying to reduce the
burden we never said we could little
abortion
yay did you were just saying that it was
a human right that it was there was
gonna be no tuition you didn't just say
that everyone would get six years of
free university education six years of
free university education you said you
would pay them a salary while they were
studying you'd be paid wages while you
were always sitting that's not just
reducing the burden that is eliminated
well what's this confusion
whereas this government's going and
let's be honest with ourselves guys if
you have a terrible system of education
and then you've remove the pricing
mechanism you get an even worse system
of education you would really need
profound systemic intelligent reform for
a new era in which the university system
is no longer built around extracting
tuition from students can it be done it
can be done but Jeremy Corbyn did not
convince the British public that he was
the man to do it but hey first things
last people if you have a textbook
education in political science this is
all you need to know as to why Jeremy
Corbyn lost the election quite apart
from questions of communism putting Tony
Blair on trial and whether or not any of
his election promises to hand out
billions of dollars of the free
education to the British people um when
you look at this map you're looking at
the districts that voted for and against
brexit Jeremy Corbyn chose strategically
to make brexit the one crucial issue
that this election would stand or fall
on and when you look at this map you can
see clearly what that meant was that the
only places he could have possibly made
progress the only parts of the United
Kingdom where he could have won more
seats for his party or Scotland and
Northern Ireland those are the parts of
the map that are coloured in indicating
that they voted to remain in Europe to
remain part of the European Union as
opposed to voting to exit
if you know even a little bit about
politics in the British Isles you know
that this election was not going to be
the election in which the Labour Party
dramatically takes over the leadership
of Scotland Scotland has its own very
separate set of political preoccupations
including the Scottish independence
movement Scottish Nationalist Party
Northern Ireland is even more hopeless
okay that's debatable which one is more
hopeless for the Labour Party in any
case if you have a textbook education in
political science you can look at this
map and say okay if strategically this
was the issue that the Labour Party
chose that went on then this is gonna be
the issue that they lose on because
there are only some tiny little bits and
pieces of England there that wanted to
remain and where they could possibly
gain a few extra seats and that did not
happen
Jeremy Corbyn congratulations on
eliminating yourself from European
politics